Keep GitLab instances updated (#3962) (#5209)
DataBiosphere/azul: OPERATOR.rst

label from that PR. Remove the ``base`` label from the blocking PR. Lastly, remove the blocking
relationship.

Upgrading Linux AMI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are ways to dynamically determine the latest Amazon Linux AMI but in the
spirit of reproducible builds we would rather pin the AMI and adopt updates at
our own discretion so as to avoid unexpected failures due to AMI changes. To

> fetch the latest compatible AMI ID, run::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
obtain the latest compatible AMI ID, run::
```

> obtain the latest compatible AMI ID, run::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
obtain the latest compatible AMI ID, select a GitLab component, say, `_select dev.gitlab` and then run::
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     _select dev.gitlab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    aws ssm get-parameters \
      --names \
          $(aws ssm get-parameters-by-path \
              --path /aws/service/ami-amazon-linux-latest \
              --query "Parameters[].Name" \
          | jq -r .[] \
          | grep -F amzn2 \
          | grep -Fv minimal \
          | grep -Fv kernel-5.10 \
          | grep -F x86_64 \
          | grep -F ebs) \
    | jq -r .Parameters[].Value

> Note that the AMI ID is specific to a region. If there are ….gitlab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the AMI ID is specific to a region. If there are `….gitlab`
```

and so on

> Note that the AMI ID is specific to a region. If there are ….gitlab

Reviewer 2: Also, you are jumping straight to the complicated case of varying regions. You should first describe what to do with the AMI ID in the straight-forward case.

> Use this ID, and note that it is specific to a region. If there are ….gitlab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the AMI ID is specific to a region. If there are ….gitlab
```

components in more than one AWS region, you need to select at least one ….gitlab
component in each of these regions, rerun the command for each such component,
and add or update the entry for the respective region in the dictionary literal,
referenced in the next grep command. To find the current AMI ID, run::

>     cat $project_root/terraform/gitlab/gitlab.tf.json.template.py | grep "'us-east-1': 'ami"

Reviewer 2: Just mention the variable name. Operators aren't idiots.

the instance stopped after the snapshot has been created. There is no point in
starting the instance only to have the update terminate it again.

> Update GitLab via ``yum update``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update software packages on the GitLab instance
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To apply updates to the Linux instance running GitLab, SSH into the system and

Reviewer 2: How do we do this for production instances where no operator has SSH access?

Author: I've added a prerequisite for this instructions, requiring SSH access to the instances where the updates are planned. Otherwise, the operator should request for the project lead to run the yum update step and confirmation of when is it clear to proceed with the reboot.

> use ``yum`` to apply the package updates. It is recommended to run the

Reviewer 2: "To apply updates … to apply package updates" is somewhat redundant.

``screen`` command prior to applying any updates. This will create a session
that will be recoverable should your connection drop while the updates are in

> progress::

Reviewer 2: This has never happened to me. Also, if we do this periodically and keep the AMI fresh, there will never be that many updates. I would remove `screen`.

    screen
    sudo yum update

A reboot of the instance might be necessary to guarantee the latest packages are
being used by the instance. Note that kernel updates are not loaded until a

> reboot occurs, and is also the case for any updates of the ``glibc`` libraries.

Reviewer 2: Just always reboot.

the instance stopped after the snapshot has been created. There is no point in
starting the instance only to have the update terminate it again.

Update GitLab via ``yum update``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following is an exerpt from the official `AWS instructions`_ on updating an
AWS Linux instance. The many packages in a Linux instance are updated frequently
to fix bugs, add features, and protect against security exploits. To update all
the packages on the instance, run the yum command within a screen by simply
running::

    screen

Then, if the connection drops, there will be no recovery caveats to deal with.
Review the packages listed, before typing `y`, when running::

>     sudo yum update

Reviewer: From the official `AWS instructions`_ on updating instance software on your Amazon Linux instance, _Many packages in a Linux distribution are updated frequently to fix bugs, add features, and protect against security exploits_.

To apply updates to the Linux instance running GitLab, SSH into the system and use `yum` to apply the package updates. It is recommended to run the `screen` command prior to applying the updates. This will create a session that will be recoverable should your connection drop while the updates are in progress::

    screen
    sudo yum update

> Reboot of the instance might be necessary to guaranty the lates packages are in
> use by the instance. Note that kernel updates are not loaded until reboot
> occurs, and is also the case for any of the ``glibc`` libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A reboot of the instance might be necessary to guarantee the latest packages are being
used by the instance. Note that kernel updates are not loaded until a reboot
occurs, and is also the case for any updates of the ``glibc`` libraries.
```
